In terms of overcoming challenges, adult life has provided several, but none of them really compare to the (unfortunately not-at-all unique) pain of being an overstressed, depressed high school student. In my case, this led to me dropping out at 16 (the earliest I legally could), which was a shockingly effective tactic for clearing up my mental health issues but otherwise a very risky move. I credit three things with this not ending in total disaster:

First is California's incredible community college system, which allows anyone to study, and allowed me to transfer to a world-class research university despite not having finished high school. I honestly don't know what would have happened to me if this institution didn't exist.

Second is my own self-learning ability. This is, for example, how I got that MediocrePy project done (excellent as it may be, community college doesn't teach how to vectorize or parallelize code).

Third is the privilege of having supportive parents in the tech industry. They, and sometimes their friends, provided occasional teaching and mentoring that helped me along greatly in my ostensibly self-taught journey.

Besides my in-person mentors, the teaching materials available on the internet have been an incredible resource in helping me get to where I am today, and so I do enjoy giving back to others in turn. Inasmuch as I don't know anyone in real life (outside family and work) who shares my interest in computer graphics and parallelism, I currently participate from time-to-time (as u/akeley98) in discussions and question-answering on the r/OpenGL and r/Vulkan subreddits.

As for the PhD itself, truth is this isn't motivated by me wanting to become a great engineer, or some lofty plans for my future (or my pocketbook). Nvidia already is the place for me to be to get all three. I don't have any particular love for the daily life of software engineering. What I do love is algorithms, and mathematics, and performance; and the incredible beauty of these things contrasts harshly (to me) with the ugliness by which these things are so-often achieved in real-world codebases. I'd like to at least wish (if not predict) that half a lifetime from now – whether through advances in artificial intelligence, or intelligence of our own – general-purpose computers, and the means by which we program them, will look radically different and more pleasing than those of today. Whether this comes to pass or not, I hope to at least have been there, contributed something artistic (and of practical value), and had the time to refocus myself on the beauty that steered me into this field in the first place. That's what really motivates me to pivot from my current life and do this.
